================
Changelog v0.2.3
================

The most interesting changes are the following:
 * New security version for POSTing task_runs preventing abusing the system
 * CKAN backend performance improvements: polling now with JavaScript
 * Themes support: now you can easily customize PyBossa look and feel
 * Breadth First Scheduler improved: now users can only participate once in
   every task.
 * Refactor API and add three new endpoints: globalstats, user and token.
 * Allow admins to download a list of users in CSV/JSON format.
 * Fix CKAN key uniqueness in DB.
 * Load 20 apps per page (customized in the settings page).
 * Send categories to the front page.
 * Use Markdown as default for App's long description field (with migration
   script for older versions).
 * Add a simple blog for each app where the owner can share its progress with
   the users.
 * Passwords in apps: the owner of the app can set a password so both anonymous
   and authenticated users are required to know it if they want to contribute to
   the app.
 * Background jobs: cache warm, large tasks import, email, etc, are handled now
   as job executed in the background.
 * Background jobs dashboard: admins can manage background jobs with a dashboard.
 * Audit log for projects: admin users can see the changes that a project has
   gone through.
 * Newsletters: a PyBossa project can now show a newsletter subscription page
   to a Mailchimp list.
 * Export tasks and taskruns changes: creation of CSV and JSON files for both
   task and task runs are now handled in the background regularly, and served
   as static .zip files.
 * Flickr importer: import tasks for image classification projects directly from
   a Flickr account.
 * Dropbox importer: import tasks directly from public files in a Dropbox account.
 * Apps are now projects: URL for projects have been renamed from /app/aproject to
   /project/aproject in all the code, both front-end and back-end, including
   database and API.
 * Plugins system: support for creating custom plugins and add them to a PyBossa
   server has been added.
 * PyBossa dashboard: see what's going on in your server. **REQUIRES POSTGRESQL >= 9.3**
 * Add keyset pagination for the API: this returns results much faster than
   offsets.

For a full list of changes, see associated `Github milestone`_.

.. _Github milestone: https://github.com/PyBossa/pybossa/issues?milestone=7&page=1&state=closed

Upgrading
=========

The new security changes force you to upgrade your current server to make it
more robust against possible attacks.

.. note::
    Please, backup the database before continuing.

In order to upgrade you will have to pull the new code, and then run the
following command to upgrade the database::

  source env/bin/activate
  alembic upgrade head

Then restart your server, and you will be done.
